---
layout: article
title: Authentication
description: How to authenticate against SAS (Viya, EBI or Base) using the SASjs CLI.  SAS9 requires the SASjs Runner to be deployed first.
---

# sasjs auth

`sasjs auth` provides authentication against a predefined SAS _target_.  The following commands make use of authentication:

* sasjs run
* sasjs job execute
* sasjs flow
* sasjs request
* sasjs deploy
* sasjs test
* sasjs folder

The `sasjs auth` command is an alias for `sasjs add cred` - and it is integrated also into the `sasjs add` command (for adding a new target).

## Prerequisites

Before using this command, you will need to:

- [install](/installation) the SASjs CLI
- [add](/add) a deployment target.

## Syntax

```
sasjs auth [additional arguments]
```

Additional arguments may include:

- `--target` (alias `-t`) - the target environment in which to deploy the services. If not specified, the `defaultTarget` will be used, as defined in `sasjsconfig.json`. The target can exist either in the local project configuration or in the global `.sasjsrc` file.


## Scope

Targets can have *local* (to a project) or *global* (to a user) [scope](/faq/#what-is-the-difference-between-local-and-global-targets).  For a local target, credentials are stored in a `.env.[target name]` file.  To have one file that covers all (local) targets you can rename this file to `.env`.

All published SASjs projects (and templates) already include this file in the `.gitignore` file, if you are deploying to your own existing project you should do the same - to prevent accidentally pushing credentials to source control.

For global targets the credentials are stored in the `.sasjsrc` file in the users home directory.

## Server Type

The authentication approach taken will depend on the [serverType](/sasjsconfig.html#targets_items_anyOf_i0_serverType) which can be SAS9 or SASVIYA.

### SAS Viya Authentication
To authenticate with SAS Viya you will need an administrator to provide a CLIENT and SECRET with `authorization_code` grant type (SASjs does not support password authentication grant type).  Further information on this topic is available [here](/faq/#how-can-i-obtain-a-viya-client-and-secret).

After you provide the client / secret, you are given a link which you must click to obtain the authorisation code.  Be sure to select any scopes (such as openid) if presented.

Once you provide the authorisation code, the ACESS_TOKEN and REFRESH_TOKEN are saved and used for further connection requests.  If the ACCESS_TOKEN expires (by default after 12 hours) the REFRESH_TOKEN will be used automatically to update, until it also expires (by default after 30 days).  At this point, you will need to run `sasjs auth` once again.

### SAS 9 Authentication
SAS 9 authentication requires a username and password.  We strongly recommend the use of SAS encoded passwords (method=sas003 and above), however - to enable this you will first need to make a server side change (to the `AllowEncodedPassword` property) as follows:

1. Log on to SAS® Management Console.
2. Select Application Management.
3. Navigate to Configuration Manager ► Stored Process Web App
4. Select Properties ► Advanced (tab).
5. Click the Add button and define a new property:
    * Property Name: AllowEncodedPassword
    * Property Value: true
6. Click OK
7. Restart the Mid Tier Web Server

If the password you provide is not sas-encoded, the command will still work, however you will get health warnings in the log.

#### SASjs Runner

SAS 9 operations require the use of a "runner" for executing the SAS code generated by the CLI.  For security, this runner is always stored in your home directory in metadata.

To deploy the runner:

```sas
/* import the macros */
filename mc url "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sasjs/core/main/all.sas";
%inc mc;
/* create the runner */
filename ft15f001 temp;
parmcards4;
%macro sasjs_runner();
%if %symexist(_webin_fileref) %then %do;
%inc &_webin_fileref;
%end;
%mend sasjs_runner;
%sasjs_runner()
;;;;
%mm_createwebservice(
  path=/User Folders/&sysuserid/My Folder/sasjs,
  name=runner
)
```





